OBSDOCS-1860: Release Notes (RNs) for OpenShift Logging 6.3 Release (#96021)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/logging-release-notes-6-3-0.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * about/logging-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="logging-release-notes-6-3-0_{context}"]
= Logging 6.3.0 release notes

This release of {LoggingProductName} is supported on {ocp-product-title} 4.14 and later. This release includes new features and bug fixes. 

[id="openshift-logging-release-notes-6-3-0-enhancements_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

> === Log Collection

Reviewer: Use [sentence-style capitalization](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-capitalization#sentence-style-capitalization)
```suggestion
=== Log collection
```

> * With this release, you can configure multiple {aws-first} outputs with distinct IAM roles in the `clusterLogForwarder` resource. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6790[LOG-6790])

Author: done

* With this release, you can configure affinity rules to control collector scheduling. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6858[LOG-6858])

> * With this release, default values of Splunk metadata keys: index, indexed fields, source, and message payload are predefined for log forwarders. The values are based on the log type. As a user, you can override these values. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6859[LOG-6859]) 

Reviewer: Remove the colon:
```suggestion
* With this release, the default values of Splunk metadata keys (that is, index, indexed fields, source, and message payload) are predefined for log forwarders. The values are based on the log type. As a user, you can override these values. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6859[LOG-6859]) 
```

Author: done

=== Log storage

> * With this release, you can specify the S3 secret in the `forcepathstyle` field. Use this field to configure Loki to use either path style or virtual host style S3 URL. By default, {aws-short} endpoints use the virtual host style URL, equivalent to setting the `forcepathstyle` attribute to `false`. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-7024?[LOG-7024])

Reviewer: Suggestion for clarity: 
```suggestion
* With this release, you can specify the S3 secret in the `forcepathstyle` field. Use this field to configure the Loki Operator to use either the path style or the virtual host style S3 URL. By default, {aws-short} endpoints use the virtual host style URL, which is equivalent to setting the `forcepathstyle` attribute to `false`. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-7024?[LOG-7024])
```

[id="logging-release-notes-6-3-0-technology-preview-features_{context}"]
== Technology preview

:FeatureName: The OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) output log forwarder
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="logging-release-notes-6-3-0-bug-fixes_{context}"]
== Bug fixes

* Before this update, alerting rules created by the {loki-op} incorrectly used the `message` field to display the message related to the alert. With this update, the alerting rules correctly use the `description` field.
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6380[LOG-6380]) 

> * Before this update, alerting rules were visible in unrelated namespaces due to lack of filtering based on the namespace in the Prometheus rules endpoint. As a consequence, user alerts were visible in unrelated namespaces. With this update, rule label filters have been added to the handler configuration, preventing alerts from being visible in unrelated namespaces. As a result, alert visibility is now restricted to the original namespace. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6148[LOG-6148])

Reviewer: Suggestions to avoid duplication:
```suggestion
* Before this update, because of a lack of filtering based on the namespace in the Prometheus rules endpoint, user alerts were visible in unrelated namespaces. With this update, rule label filters have been added to the handler configuration. As a result, alert visibility is now restricted to the original namespace. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6148[LOG-6148])
```

> * Before this update, `ClusterLogForwarder` CR status updates failed due to an incorrect patching method. As a consequence, the {clo} failed to update objects, causing log data inconsistencies. With this release, `ClusterLogForwarder` CR status uses the `Patch()` method instead of the `Update()` method. As a result, the {clo} no longer fails to update the object, improving log forwarding stability. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6539[LOG-6539]) 

Reviewer: Suggestion for clarity:
```suggestion
* Before this update, `ClusterLogForwarder` CR status updates failed due to an incorrect patching method. As a consequence, the {clo} failed to update objects, which caused log data inconsistencies. With this release, `ClusterLogForwarder` CR status uses the `Patch()` method instead of the `Update()` method. As a result, the {clo} no longer fails to update the object, which improves log forwarding stability. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6539[LOG-6539]) 
```

Author: done

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * about/logging-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="logging-release-notes-6-3-0_{context}"]
= Logging 6.3.0 release notes

This release of {LoggingProductName} is supported on {ocp-product-title} 4.17 and later. This release includes new features and bug fixes. 

[id="openshift-logging-release-notes-6-3-0-enhancements_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

> === Log collection

Author: done

* Before this update, alerting rules created by the {loki-op} incorrectly used the `message` field to display the message related to the alert. With this update, the alerting rules correctly use the `description` field.
(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6380[LOG-6380]) 

* Before this update, because of a lack of filtering based on the namespace in the Prometheus rules endpoint, user alerts were visible in unrelated namespaces. With this update, rule label filters have been added to the handler configuration. As a result, alert visibility is now restricted to the original namespace. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6148[LOG-6148])

* Before this update, `ClusterLogForwarder` CR status updates failed due to an incorrect patching method. As a consequence, the {clo} failed to update objects, which caused log data inconsistencies. With this release, `ClusterLogForwarder` CR status uses the `Patch()` method instead of the `Update()` method. As a result, the {clo} no longer fails to update the object, which improves log forwarding stability. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6539[LOG-6539])

> * Before this update, the Vector collector could not forward OpenShift Virtual Network (OVN) and auditd logs. With this update, OTLP semantic conventions table has been improved to support OVN logs and auditd logs in observability pipelines. As a result, OVN and auditd logs are successfully forwarded. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6711[LOG-6711])

Author: done

> * Before this update, an empty OpenTelemetry (OTEL) tuning configuration caused a validation error resulting in build failure for the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR. With this update, the validation rules allow empty OTEL tuning configurations. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6806[LOG-6806])

Author: updated with a slight modification

> * Before this update, an empty OpenTelemetry (OTEL) tuning configuration caused a validation error resulting in build failure for the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR. With this update, the validation rules allow empty OTEL tuning configurations. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6806[LOG-6806])

Author: done

* Before this update, the Loki API documentation did not specify the required attributes for the `lokistack.spec.tenants.openshift.otlp` resource. With this update, the the Loki API documentation has been updated to include the missing information. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6810[LOG-6810])

* Before this update, the loki-gateway did not enforce fine-grained authorization on the `/series` endpoint for the `application` tenant. As a consequence, users could get unauthorized access to the stream metadata information from different log streams. With this update, the `/series` endpoint uses the `match` parameter instead of the `query` parameter to filter the series metadata that is returned for a request. As a result, loki-gateway correctly enforces fine-grained authorization for the `/series` endpoint for the `application` tenant. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6892[LOG-6892]) 

> * Before this update, Loki ingesters that got into an unhealthy state due to networking issues stayed in that state even when the network recovered. With this update, the {loki-op} adds a configuration option that configures Loki to perform service discovery more often, which makes unhealthy ingesters rejoin the group. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6987[LOG-6987])

Author: nice suggestion, thanks!

> * Before this update, the Loki distributor returned parsing errors on receiving logs without the `responseStatus.code` field, when using the OpenTelemetry (OTEL) data model. As a consequence, users saw parsing errors in Loki audit logs. With this release, empty `k8s.audit.event.response.code` Loki attributes in logs are ignored. As a result, users do not see parsing errors in Loki audit logs. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-7028[LOG-7028])

Author: done

> * Before this update, merging data from the `message` field into the root of a Syslog log event caused inconsistencies with the ViaQ data model. These inconsistencies could overwrite system information, duplicate data, or corrupt the log event. This update makes Syslog parsing and merging consistent with the other output types and resolves the issue. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-7189[LOG-7189])

Author: done

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Using the `use-apiserver-cache` and `max-unavailable-rollout` attributes is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].
====

*  Before this update, a `ClusterLogForwarder` CR configured for a `LokiStack` output with the OTEL data model passed validation without the `tech preview` annotation. With this update, the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR configured for a `LokiStack` output with the OTEL data model correctly fails validation if the `tech preview` annotation is not included. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-7279[LOG-7279])

[id="logging-release-notes-6-3-0-known-issues_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * When forwarding logs to a syslog output, the produced message format is inconsistent between Fluentd and Vector log collectors. Vector messages are within quotes, whereas Fluentd messages are not. As a consequence, users might face issues with their tool integrations when they migrate from Fluentd to Vector. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-7007[LOG-7007])

Reviewer 2: This is fine but just an FYI that if it's the system that is explicitly doing the forwarding and not the user, it would be acceptable per the [ISG](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-verbs#voice) and perhaps more technically accurate to leave that first part in passive voice. Might be worth double checking to see which would be more appropriate here

> * When forwarding logs to a syslog output, the produced message format is inconsistent between Fluentd and Vector log collectors. Vector messages are within quotes, whereas Fluentd messages are not. As a consequence, users might face issues with their tool integrations when they migrate from Fluentd to Vector. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-7007[LOG-7007])

Author: updated as suggested
